Now that we're making transactions for ourselves,
we can check out the details of them using an online block explorer.
In this video, we'll find the transaction we just made
and go over some important details of a Bitcoin TestNet Block Explorer.
There are few options that you can use to explore block chains,
and there are reasons that you may end up with
a specific preference of one over another in the future.
But for now, we'll be using this one for
the website blockcypher.com because it has everything that we need.
You can get there using the link that we've put down below this video.
Before looking at your transaction,
it helps to know what's going on here.
First, check to make sure that you're on the Bitcoin TestNet.
To do so, click on the drop-down and select Bitcoin TestNet from the list of options.
Once you're on the TestNet,
you will see that the page is broken into three main sections;
Recent Blocks, current Fee Estimates,
and the Latest Transactions.
For the Recent Blocks, you'll see things like the height, the age,
number of transactions, total Bitcoins sent,
total fees, and the block size.
These are hopefully pretty familiar attributes by now.
Notice that the height is always increasing by one,
and the age of each is more recent than the
last and that's because it's listing each block in the order that they're being created.
The total amount sent and the fees are
dependent on what was specified by the user making the transaction.
The transactions and the size are related to one another.
More transactions in the block means more data is stored on the block,
which results in a larger block.
Scrolling down, you'll see the current fee estimates.
This is a way to see the proximate cause of making transactions on the network.
This isn't too important right now,
since these are all just TestNet coins,
but as you start making applications,
the transaction fee can definitely impact the way
users might send and receive Bitcoins with your app.
Finally, down at the bottom here,
you'll see the latest transactions that have been made on the Test Network.
Now, if you were to go to this site quick enough right off you send your transaction,
you might be able to see your transactions on the list.
But if it's not there that's totally fine,
you can always look at your transaction using the search bar here.
Let's go ahead and do that now.
To search for your transaction,
you need the transaction ID.
So, back in the wallet here,
go to the Transactions tab,
and then right-click on the transaction that
you'd like to search for on the Block Explorer.
Select the option Copy Transaction ID,
and then navigate back to the Block Explorer,
and then paste this ID into the search bar, and then click Search.
Here, you'll see all the details of your transaction,
with things like the amount, the fees,
the time, and the number of confirmations it has received.
The advanced details shows you things like the block hash,
height, the index, and a number of other details.
Scrolling further down, you'll see the detail section.
This gives a breakdown of the transactions inputs and outputs.
You can see that the original transaction was initiated by sending this much,
but then only the amount requested was sent,
and the remaining amount was given back to the sender as change.
So, that's most everything that you need to know about
finding your transaction on the Block Explorer.
This is a good tool for navigating the network and getting
a good idea of the structure of data available on the block chain.
Keep in mind that all of this data can be access programmatically as well.
Now, as you look around,
think about how you might want to use some of
this information in upcoming applications as you build.